Language_name	Example_number	Example_type	Primary_text	Original_orthography	Analyzed_text	Gloss	Translation
Bora	1	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi tsɨ́ɨ́méneke wátajcó cobííjavu.		wajpi tsɨ́ɨ́méne-ke wátajcó cobííjya-vu	man child-ACC cover blanket-ALL	The man covered the child with the blanket.
Bora	2	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi wáhpetsó vááso nújpácyotu.		wajpi wáhpe-tsó vááso nújpácyo-tu	man full-CAUS glass water-ABL	The man filled the glass with water.
Bora	3	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi picyóó ájɨ mɨ́ɨ́népañévu.		wajpi picyóó ájɨ mɨ́ɨ́né pañé-vu	man put palm_leaves canoe inside-ALL	The man loaded the hay on the canoe (lit. The man put palm leaves into the canoe).
Bora	4	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi chiácó ɨ́ɨ́juke úméhetu.		wajpi chiácó ɨ́ɨ́ju-ke úméhe-tu	man tie horse-ACC tree-ABL	The man tied the horse to the tree.
Bora	5	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi cáhpiñú nújpacyo váásó pañévu.		wajpi cáhpiñú nújpacyo váásó pañé-vu	man pour water glass inside-ALL	The man poured the water into the glass .
Bora	6	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi picyó wajácuháámɨ méétsá hallúvu.		wajpi picyó wajácuháámɨ méétsá hallú-vu	man put book table top-ALL	The man put the book on the table.
Bora	7	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa waaó nééwau nújpácyó pañévu.		ováhtsa waaó nééwau nújpácyó pañé-vu	boy throw stone(ACC) water inside-ALL	The boy threw the stone into the window.
Bora	8	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa tsiivá wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbedívu.		ováhtsa tsiivá wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-vu	boy bring book teacher-ANIM-ALL	The boy brought the book to the teacher.
Bora	9	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa tsajtyé wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbedívu.		ováhtsa tsajtyé wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-vu	boy carry book teacher-ANIM-ALL	The boy carried the book to the teacher.
Bora	10	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa tsajtyé wajácuháámɨ uwáábójavu.		ováhtsa tsajtyé wajácuháámɨ uwáábója-vu	boy carry book school-ALL	The boy carried the book to school.
Bora	11	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa walló wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbedívu.		ováhtsa walló wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-vu	boy send book teacher-ANIM-ALL	The boy sent the book to the teacher .
Bora	12	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa walló wajácuháámɨ uwáábójavu.		ováhtsa walló wajácuháámɨ uwáábó-ja-vu	boy send book teach-house-ALL	The boy sent the book to school.
Bora	13	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa ajcú waajácuháámɨvu uwáábóóbeke.		ováhtsa ajcú waajácuháámɨ-vu uwáábóóbe-ke	boy give book-ALL teacher-ACC	The boy gave the book to the teacher.
Bora	14	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa ɨ́ɨ́tetsó waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbeke.		ováhtsa ɨ́ɨ́te-tsó waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-ke	boy see-CAUS book teacher-ACC	The boy showed the book to the teacher.
Bora	15	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa ujcú waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbedítyu .		ováhtsa ujcú waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-tyu	boy take book teacher-ANIM-ABL	The boy took the book from the teacher.
Bora	16	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa naní waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbedítyu .		ováhtsa naní waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-tyu	boy steal book teacher-ANIM-ABL	The boy stole the book from the teacher.
Bora	17	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa páátanú waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbedítyu.		ováhtsa páátanú waajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-tyu	boy hide book teacher-ANIM-ABL	The boy hid the book from the teacher.
Bora	18	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa kídyahɨ́nú páá nɨɨtsúwáwuri.		ováhtsa kídyahɨ́nú páá nɨɨtsúwáwu-ri	boy cut bread knife-LOC/INST	The boy cut the bread with the knife.
Bora	19	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa dómajcó ííñímeke úméhékori.		ováhtsa dómajcó ííñíme-ke úméhéco-ri	boy touch snake-ACC stick-LOC/INST	The boy touched the snake with the stick.
Bora	20	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa wádɨ́rɨhjácó ííñímeke (ballóówari).		ováhtsa wádɨ́rɨhjácó ííñíme-ke ballóówa-ri	boy beat.w/stick snake-ACC stick-LOC/INST	The boy hit the snake with the stick .
Bora	21	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa wádɨ́rɨhcó ííñímeke (ballóówari).		ováhtsa wádɨ́rɨhcó ííñíme-ke ballóówa-ri	boy beat.w/stick snake-ACC stick-LOC/INST	The boy beat the snake with the stick.
Bora	22	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa dsɨ́jɨ́vetsó ííñímeke ballóówari.		ováhtsa dsɨ́jɨ́ve-tsó ííñíme-ke ballóówa-ri	boy die-CAUS snake-ACC stick-LOC/INST	The boy killed the snake with the stick.
Bora	23	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa cápújuhjácó veentáána nééwábyari.		ováhtsa cápújuhjácó veentáána nééwábya-ri	boy break.w/pointed_object window stone-LOC/INST	The boy broke the window with the stone.
Bora	24	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi meenú ja ájɨri.		wajpi meenú ja ájɨ-ri	man make house palm-LOC/INST	The man built the house with palm leaves.
Bora	25	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi dilló ováhtsake cuhjúbadi.		wajpi dilló ováhtsa-ke cuhjúba-di	man name boy-ACC fool-ANIM	The man called the boy a fool.
Bora	26	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi néé ováhtsake ''tsáhaá''.		wajpi néé ováhtsa-ke tsáhaá	man say boy-ACC no	The man said to the boy: "no"."
Bora	27	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi (uubállé) uubálle ováhtsake .		wajpi uubállé uubálle ováhtsa-ke	man story tell boy-ACC	The man told a story to the boy.
Bora	28	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa táuméí dsɨ́ɨ́dsɨ wajpikye.		ováhtsa táuméí dsɨ́ɨ́dsɨ wajpi-kye	boy ask money(ACC) man-ACC	The boy asked the man for money.
Bora	29	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ihjyúvá ováhtsama wákyiméiyi.		wajpi ihjyúvá ováhtsa-ma wákyiméi-yi	man talk boy-SOC work-LOC/INST	The man talked to the boy about work.
Bora	30	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi wáájacú ováhtsake.		wajpi wáájacú ováhtsa-ke	man know boy-ACC	The man knew the boy.
Bora	31	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ɨ́tsaavé ováhtsake.		wajpi ɨ́tsaavé ováhtsa-ke	man remember boy-ACC	The man remembered the boy.
Bora	32	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ováhtsake ájtyumɨ́.		wajpi ováhtsa-ke ájtyumɨ́	man boy-ACC see	The man saw the boy.
Bora	33	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ɨɨté ováhtsake.		wajpi ɨɨté ováhtsa-ke	man look boy-ACC	The man looked at the boy.
Bora	34	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi íllívyeebó ováhtsake.		wajpi íllívyeebó ováhtsa-ke	man frighten boy-ACC	The man frightened the boy.
Bora	35	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa illí wájpike.		ováhtsa illí wájpi-ke	boy fear man-ACC	The boy feared the man.
Bora	36	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa ímillé wájpikye.		ováhtsa ímillé wájpi-kye	boy like man-ACC	The boy liked the man.
Bora	37	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi nehcó ováhtsake.		wajpi nehcó ováhtsa-ke	man search boy-ACC	The man searched for the boy.
Bora	38	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi llííñájá.		wajpi llííñájá	man hunt	The man hunted.
Bora	39	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi táábavá wálleke.		wajpi táába-vá wálle-ke	man wife-VBLZ.have woman-ACC	The man married the girl.
Bora	40	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ajtyúmɨ́ bádsɨ́jcájake.		wajpi ajtyúmɨ́ bádsɨ́jcája-ke	man meet girl-ACC	The man met (lit. saw) the girl.
Bora	41	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi úraavyé bádsɨ́jcájake.		wajpi úraavyé bádsɨ́jcája-ke	man follow girl-ACC	The man followed the girl.
Bora	42	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi pɨ́aabó bádsɨ́jcájake.		wajpi pɨ́aabó bádsɨ́jcája-ke	man help girl-ACC	The man helped the girl.
Bora	43	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi majchó páá.		wajpi majchó páá	man eat bread(ACC)	The man ate the bread.
Bora	44	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi uácó tsɨ́ɨ́méneke.		wajpi uácó tsɨ́ɨ́méne-ke	man dress child-ACC	The man dressed the child.
Bora	45	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi nijtyú tsɨ́ɨ́méneke.		wajpi nijtyú tsɨ́ɨ́méne-ke	man wash child-ACC	The man washed the child.
Bora	46	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi nijtyámeí.		wajpi nijtyá-meí	man wash-REFL	The man washed himself.
Bora	47	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi éjéhtsó.		wajpi éjéhtsó	man cough	The man coughed.
Bora	48	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi nériivyé téhbau.		wajpi nériivyé téhbau	man climb hill	The man climbed (up) the hill.
Bora	49	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ácuuvé (baavu).		wajpi ácuuvé baa-vu	man sit below-ALL	The man sat down (on the floor).
Bora	50	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ácuúcunú (baari).		wajpi ácuúcunú baa-ri	man sit below-LOC/INST	The man sat (on the floor).
Bora	51	Elicited from speaker	Tsɨɨméne dsɨɨné (baari).		tsɨɨméne dsɨɨné baa-ri	child run below-LOC/INST	The child ran (on the floor).
Bora	52	Elicited from speaker	Tsɨɨméne cátsíñiivyé (baari).		tsɨɨméne cátsíñiivyé baa-ri	child jump below-LOC/INST	The child jumped (on the floor).
Bora	53	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa tsáá cóomivu.		ováhtsa tsáá cóómi-vu	boy come village-ALL	The boy came (to the village).
Bora	54	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa tsáá cóomitu.		ováhtsa tsáá cóomi-tu	boy come village-ABL	The boy went (from the village).
Bora	55	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa ícyahíjcá cóomiri.		ováhtsa ícya-híjcyá cóomi-ri	boy be-REP village-LOC/INST	The boy lived (in the village).
Bora	56	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa májtsivá.		ováhtsa májtsi-vá	boy song-VBLZ.have	The boy sang (a song).
Bora	57	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa bóhówaavé júúvari.		ováhtsa bóhówaavé júúva-ri	boy appear road-LOC/INST	The boy appeared on the path.
Bora	58	Elicited from speaker	Táñéjuwa oké avyé.		táñéjuwa o-ké avyé	1SG.POSS_arm 1SG-ACC hurt	My arm hurts (me).
Bora	59	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi dsɨ́jívé.		wajpi dsɨ́jívé	man die	The man died.
Bora	60	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi áákityé (baavu).		wajpi áákityé baa-vu	man fall below-ALL	The man fell (on the ground).
Bora	61	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa tsuucó.		ováhtsa tsuucó	boy cold	The boy froze (lit. The boy was cold).
Bora	62	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa ajyábáávaté.		ováhtsa ajyábáávaté	boy be_hungry	The boy was hungry.
Bora	63	Elicited from speaker	Alléne.		allé-ne	rain-3INAN	It rained.
Bora	64	Elicited from speaker	Walle wájpikyé wátájcotsó tsɨ́ɨ́méneke cobííjyavu.		walle wájpii-kyé wátájco-tsó tsɨ́ɨ́méne-ke cobííjya-vu	woman man-ACC cover-CAUS child-ACC blanket-ALL	The woman made the man cover the child with a blanket.
Bora	65	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi wátájcameí cobííjyari.		wajpi wátájca-meí cobííjya-ri	man cover-REFL blanket-LOC/INST	The man covered himself with a blanket.
Bora	66	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi wátájcameí cobííjyavu.		wajpi wátájca-meí cobííjya-vu	man cover-REFL blanket-ALL	The man covered himself with a blanket.
Bora	67	Elicited from speaker	Wajpíímu wátácójcatsí cobííjyari.		wajpíí-mu wátácó-jcatsí cobííjya-ri	man-PL cover-RECP blanket-LOC/INST	The men covered each other with a blanket.
Bora	68	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi wátacó tsɨ́ɨ́méneke cobííjyari.		wajpi wátacó tsɨ́ɨ́méne-ke cobííjya-ri	man cover child-ACC blanket-LOC/INST	The man covered the child with a blanket.
Bora	69	Elicited from speaker	Tsɨ́ɨ́mene wátahácunú cobííjya-ri.		tsɨ́ɨ́mene wáta-hácunú cobííjya-ri	child cover-MULT.INTR blanket-LOC/INST	The child was covered with a blanket.
Bora	70	Elicited from speaker	Tsɨ́ɨ́mene wátáhaavé cobííjyavu.		tsɨ́ɨ́mene wátá-haavé cobííjya-vu	child cover-SNG.INTR blanket-ALL	The child has covered himself with a blanket.
Bora	71	Elicited from speaker	Vááso wahpécunú nújpácyotu.		vááso wahpé-cunú nújpácyo-tu	glass fill-MULT.INTR water-ABL	The glass is full of water.
Bora	72	Constructed by linguist	O dóóhi.		o dóó-hi níívúwa-ke	1SG eat_meat-PRED deer-ACC	I eat deer.
Bora	73	Constructed by linguist	Walle wajpike majchótso páávu.		walle wajpi-ke majchó-tso páá-vu	woman man-ACC eat-CAUS bread-ALL	The woman made the man eat bread.
Bora	74		Tsɨ́ɨ́júmuke tsɨɨme ámábiñúhi.		tsɨ́ɨ́jú-mu-ke tsɨɨme ámábiñú-hi	mother-PL-ACC children hug-PRED	The children are hugging the mothers.
Bora	75		Oohííbyé árahcó hééco.		oohííbyé árahcó hééco	dog smell meat(ACC)	The dog smells the meat.
Bora	76		Táñahbévajtéké ó ɨtsáávehíjcyáhi.		táñahbévajté-ké ó ɨtsááve-híjcyá-hi	brothers-ACC 1SG think-REP-PRED	I think about my brothers.
Bora	77		Ó babáñú áátsɨ́ɨ́meke wájyamúúnevu.		ó babáñú áátsɨ́ɨ́me-ke wájyamúúne-vu	1SG dress my_children-ACC clothes-ALL	I dress my children with clothes.
Bora	78		Oke táñahbe tsɨjpájúú.		o-ke táñahbe tsɨjpájúú	1.SG-ACC 1.SG_brother shout_at	My brother is shouting at me.
Bora	79	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi meenú ja ájɨtu.		wajpi meenú ja ájɨ-tu	man make house palm-ABL	The man built the house with palm leaves.
Bora	80	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa tsáhaamɨ dóbahjyúcú wajácuháámɨtu.		ováhtsa tsá-haamɨ dó-ba-hjyúcú wajácuháámɨ-tu	boy one-leaf INST:HAND-tear-SNG.TRANS book-ABL	The boy tore the page from the book.
Bora	81		Méɨhtú baajúrí.		mé-ɨhtú baajúrí	1PL-peel manioc(ACC)	We peel manioc.
Bora	82		Aalle támihcyó.		aalle támihcyó	3SG blink	She blinks.
Bora	83		Keeme ácuúcunú cúúmú hallúri.		keeme ácuúcunú cúúmú hallú-ri	old_man sit signal_drum top-LOC/INST	The old man sits on the signal drum.
Bora	84		O péé tahjyávu.		o péé tah-jyá-vu	1SG go 1SG-house-ALL	I go to my house.
Bora	85		Ú ijchívyé cóómítyuú.		ú ijchívyé cóómí-tyuú	2SG leave village-ABL	You left the village.
Bora	86	Constructed by linguist	Ó goocó.		ó goocó	1SG laugh	I laugh.
Bora	87	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi ihjyúcunú ováhtsake.		wajpi ihjyúcunú ováhtsa-ke	man shout boy-ACC	The man shouted at the boy.
Bora	88		Ováhtsámú ɨɨcú peróótáuri.		ováhtsá-mú ɨɨcú peróótáu-ri	boy-PL play ball-LOC/INST	The boys are playing with the ball.
Bora	89		Bádsɨ́jcaja ɨ́dáátsové.		bádsɨ́jcaja ɨ́dáátsové	girl feel_sad	The girl feels sad.
Bora	90		Úméneba víyiivyé téhí pañévu.		úméneba víyiivyé téhí pañé-vu	trunk roll river inside-ALL	The trunk rolled into the river.
Bora	91		Cúújúwamɨ pámaavé Ikító mujcójutu.		cúújúwamɨ pámaavé Ikító mujcóju-tu	steam_ship sink Iquitos harbour-ALL	The steamship sank in the harbour of Iquitos.
Bora	92	Constructed by linguist	Tahjya áiivyé.		tah-jya áiivyé	1SG-house burn	My house is burning.
Bora	93		Ó daarɨ́.		ó daarɨ́	1SG dry	I am dry.
Bora	94	Naturalistic spoken	Botsíi píívyéébeke ú táúmeíhí mémájchotá dooráábeke.		botsíi píívyéébe-ke ú táúmeí-hí mé-májchotá dooráábe-ke	finally creator-ACC 2SG ask-PRED 1PL-nutrition fish-ACC	You ask the creator for fish of our nutrition.
Bora	95	Naturalistic spoken	Tájtsɨɨméne-ke tsúúca ítyujpácyovu ú úújetsó.		táj-tsɨɨméne-ke tsúúca í-tyujpácyo-vu ú úúje-tsó	1SG-child-ACC already 3-blood-ALL 2SG see-CAUS	You have already shown my child his blood.
Bora	96	Elicited from speaker	Téwaahyévú oke ú ájcuú.		téwaahyé-vú o-ke ú ájcuú	leftovers-ALL 1SG-ACC 2SG give	You give me the leftovers.
Bora	97		Ó picyóó táwaajácuháámɨ́ méétsáwá hallúvu.		ó picyóó tá-waajácuháámɨ́ méétsáwá hallú-vu	1SG put 1SG-book table top-ALL	I put my book on the table.
Bora	98	Constructed by linguist	Ó caanú dɨɨ caanúcori.		ó caanú dɨɨ caanúco-ri	1SG grind peppers mortar-LOC/INST	I grind peppers with a mortar.
Bora	99		Ó píchóujcó ííñullíjyu tájtyúhatyu.		ó píchóujcó ííñullíjyu tájtyúha-tyu	1SG wipe dust my_foot-ABL	I am wiping dust off my foot.
Bora	100		Táujcáhé ó nɨɨtsú.		táujcáhé ó nɨɨtsú	my_beard(ACC) 1SG shave	I shaved my beard.
Bora	101		Ó lleebó cajpááná ihjyúváne.		ó lleebó cajpááná ihjyúvá-ne	1SG hear bell speak-INAN	I hear the bell ring.
Bora	102		Tsɨ́ɨ́mene waaó íwatájcojɨ téhí pañévu.		tsɨ́ɨ́mene waaó íwatájcojɨ téhí pañé-vu	child throw his_hat(ACC) water inside-ALL	The child threw his hat into the water.
Bora	103	Elicited from speaker	Taálle tú hééco.		taálle tú hééco	grandmother cook meat	The grandmother cooks the meat.
Bora	104		Méúwaabó tsiiméké wákimyéivu.		mé-úwaabó tsɨɨmé-ké wákimyéi-vu	1PL-teach children-ACC work-ALL	We teach the children the work.
Bora	105	Elicited from speaker	Nújpacyo tsúúca waanéhi.		nújpacyo tsúúca waané-hi	water already boil-PRED	The water is already boiling.
Bora	106	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi dilló ováhtsake cuhjúbake.		wajpi dilló ováhtsa-ke cuhjúba-ke	man name boy-ACC slow-ACC	The man called the boy a slow one.
Bora	107	Elicited from speaker	Ó babáñú áátsɨ́ɨ́meke wájyamúúneri.		ó babáñú áátsɨ́ɨ́me-ke wájyamúúne-ri	1SG dress my_children-ACC clothes-LOC/INST	I dress my children with clothes.
Bora	108	Elicited from speaker	Táñahbe úménemúnáajpi íjcya-á-hi.		táñahbe úménemúnáajpi íjcya-á-hi	my_brother wood_worker be-FUT-PRED	My brother will be a wood worker.
Bora	109	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi taavá niivúwake.		wajpi taavá niivúwa-ke	man hunt deer-ACC	The man hunted the deer.
Bora	110	Elicited from speaker	Mújcuri ó tsehdí.		mújcuri ó tsehdí	barbasco_root(ACC) 1SG dig	I dig for barbasco root.
Bora	111	Constructed by linguist	Pɨ́aabójcatsímye.		pɨ́aabó-jcatsí-mye	help-RECP-3PL	They helped each other.
Bora	112	Elicited from speaker	Nɨɨtsúwáwu kídyahɨ́nú páá.		nɨɨtsúwáwu kídyahɨ́nú páá	knife cut bread	The knife cuts the bread.
Bora	113	Naturalistic spoken	Dsɨ́jɨ́vétsómeííbye.		dsɨ́jɨ́vé-tsó-meíí-bye	die-CAUS-REFL-3SG	He killed himself.
Bora	114		Táñahbe oke waaó.		táñahbe o-ke waaó	my_brother 1SG-ACC push	My brother pushed me.
Bora	115	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsa táuméí dsɨ́ɨ́dsɨtu wajpikye.		ováhtsa táuméí dsɨ́ɨ́dsɨ-tu wajpi-kye	boy ask money-ABL man-ACC	The boy asked the man for money.
Bora	116		Nííjyaba allé.		nííjyaba allé	thunderstorm rain	Lit. The thunderstorm rained.
Bora	117		Ɨ́ɨ́nerí ú goocó?		Ɨ́ɨ́ne-LOC/INST ú goocó	what-INST 2SG laugh	What are you laughing about/at?
Bora	118	Elicited from speaker	Wajpi íllityétsó ováhtsake.		wajpi íllityé-tsó ováhtsa-ke	man fear-CAUS boy-ACC	The man frightened the boy.
Bora	119	Elicited from speaker	Ováhtsake ó tsíívatsóhi wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbedívu.		ováhtsa-ke ó tsííva-tsó-hi wajácuháámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-vu	boy-ACC 1sg bring-CAUS-PRED book:ACC teacher-ANIM-ALL	I make the boy bring the book to the teacher.
Bora	120	Elicited from speaker	Tsɨ́ɨ́méneke ó wááotsóhi íwatájcojɨ téhí pañévu.		tsɨ́ɨ́méne-ke ó wááo-tsó-hi íwatájcojɨ téhí pañé-vu	child-ACC 1SG throw-CAUS-PRED his_hat:ACC water inside-ALL	I make the child throw his hat into the water.
Bora	121	Elicited from speaker	Ovátsake ó wállotsóhi wajácuáámɨ uwáábóóbedívu.		ovátsa-ke ó wállo-tsó-hi wajácuáámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-vu	boy-ACC 1SG send-CAUS-PRED book:ACC teacher-ANIM-ALL	I make the boy send the book to the teacher.
Bora	122	Elicited from speaker	Ovátsake o tsájtyetsóhi wajácuáámɨ uwáábóóbedívu.		ovátsa-ke o tsájtye-tsó-hi wajácuáámɨ uwáábóóbe-dí-vu	boy-ACC 1SG take-CAUS-PRED book:ACC teacher-ANIM-ALL	I make the boy take the book to the teacher.
Bora	123	Elicited from speaker	Wájpike ó cáhpíñutsóhi nújpakyo váásó pañévu.		wájpi-ke ó cáhpíñu-tsó-hi nújpakyo váásó pañé-vu	man-ACC 1SG pour-CAUS-PRED water:ACC glass inside-ALL	I make the man fill the glass with water.
Bora	124	Elicited from speaker	Wájpike ó píkyootsóhi ájɨ mɨ́ɨ́né pañévu.		wájpi-ke ó píkyoo-tsó-hi ájɨ mɨ́ɨ́né pañé-vu	man-ACC 1SG put-CAUS-PRED palmleafs:ACC canoe inside-ALL	I make the man put the palmleafs in the canoe.
Bora	125	Elicited from speaker	Wájpike ó uácotsóhi tsɨ́ɨ́meke íwajyámúvu.		wájpi-ke ó uáco-tsó-hi tsɨ́ɨ́me-ke íwajyámú-vu	man-ACC 1SG put_on-CAUS-PRED child-ACC his_clothes-ALL	I make the man dress the child with clothes.
Bora	126	Elicited from speaker	Ovátsake ó ájcyutsóhi wajácuáámɨvu uwáábóóbeke.		ovátsa-ke ó ájcyu-tsó-hi wajácuáámɨ-vu uwáábóóbe-ke	boy-ACC 1SG give-CAUS-PRED book-ALL teacher-ACC	I make the boy give the book to the teacher.
Bora	127	Elicited from speaker	Ovátsake ó táuméítsóhi dsɨ́ɨ́dsɨke wajpike.		ovátsa-ke ó táuméí-tsó-hi dsɨ́ɨ́dsɨ-ke wajpi-ke	boy-ACC 1SG ask_for-CAUS-PRED money-ACC man-ACC	I make the boy ask the man for money. / Yo hago al joven pedir dinero al hombre.
Bora	128	Elicited from speaker	Wájpike ó wátájcotsóhi tsɨ́ɨ́méneke cobííjyari.		wájpi-ke ó wátájco-tsó-hi tsɨ́ɨ́méne-ke cobííjya-ri	man-ACC 1SG cover-CAUS-PRED child-ACC blanket-INST	I make the man cover the child with a blanket.
