Language_name	Example_number	Example_type	Primary_text	Original_orthography	Analyzed_text	Gloss	Translation
Mandinka	1	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye léeríjámboo fárási kitáaboo bála.		kambaan-óo ye léeríjámb-oo fárási kitáab-oo bála	boy-DEF PF.POS page-DEF tear book-DEF in_contact	The boy tore the page from the book.
Mandinka	2	Elicited from speaker	Léeríjámboo fárásíta kitáaboo bála.		léeríjámb-oo fárásí-ta kitáab-oo bála	page-DEF tear-PF.POS book-DEF in_contact	The page was torn from the book.
Mandinka	3	Elicited from speaker	Kewó niŋ súnkútoo beńta.		kew-ó niŋ súnkút-oo beń-ta	man-DEF with girl-DEF meet-PF.POS	The man met the girl. \ Lit. The man with/and the girl met.
Mandinka	4	Elicited from speaker	Saateemóolu beńta.		saatee-móo-lu beń-ta	village-person.DEF-PL meet-PF.POS	The villagers gathered.
Mandinka	5	Elicited from speaker	Alikáaloo yé saateemóolu bendi.		alikáal-oo yé saatee-móo-lu be-ndi	chief-DEF PF.POS village-person.DEF-PL meet-CAUS	The chief gathered the villagers.
Mandinka	6	Elicited from speaker	Saateemóolu bendíta.		saatee-móo-lu be-ndí-ta	village-person.DEF-PL meet-CAUS-PF.POS	The villagers were gathered.
Mandinka	7	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye baŋkôo bée beŋ.		kew-ó ye baŋk-ôo bée beŋ	man-DEF PF.POS country-DEF all wander_round	The man wandered around the whole country.
Mandinka	8	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musóo tara márséwo to.		kew-ó ye mus-óo tara márséw-o to	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF meet market-DEF LOC	The man met/found the woman at the market.
Mandinka	9	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ka tara márséwo to.		mus-óo ka tara márséw-o to	woman-DEF HAB.POS be_found market-DEF LOC	The woman can usually be found at the market.
Mandinka	10	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ye mbúuroo dómo.		díndíŋ-o ye mbúur-oo dómo	child-DEF PF.POS bread-DEF eat	The child ate the bread.
Mandinka	11	Elicited from speaker	Mbúur-oo dómó-ta.		mbúur-oo dómó-ta	bread-DEF eat-PF.POS	The bread was eaten.
Mandinka	12	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ye dómóroo ke.		díndíŋ-o ye dómó-r-oo ke	child-DEF PF.POS eat-ANTIP-DEF do	The child ate.
Mandinka	13	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo dómóríta.		díndíŋ-o dómó-rí-ta	child-DEF eat-ANTIP-PF.POS	The child ate.
Mandinka	14	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye díndíŋo dómóríndi mbúuroo la.		kew-ó ye díndíŋ-o dómó-ríndi mbúur-oo la	man-DEF PF.POS child-DEF eat-CAUS bread-DEF OBL	The man made the child eat the bread.
Mandinka	15	Elicited from speaker	Kewó mínínta musóo la.		kew-ó mínín-ta mus-óo la	man-DEF wind-PF.POS woman-DEF OBL	The man hugged the woman.
Mandinka	16	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye í míniŋ musóo la.		kew-ó ye í míniŋ mus-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS REFL wind woman-DEF OBL	The man hugged the woman.
Mandinka	17	Elicited from speaker	Nómboo mínínta yíroo la.		nómb-oo mínín-ta yír-oo la	creeper-DEF wind-PF.POS tree-DEF OBL	The creeper wound around the tree.
Mandinka	18	Elicited from speaker	Kel-óo ye tat-ôo míniŋ.		kel-óo ye tat-ôo míniŋ	army-DEF PF.POS fortress-DEF surround	The army encircled the fortress.
Mandinka	19	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye julôo míniŋ fáloo la.		kew-ó ye jul-ôo míniŋ fál-oo la	man-DEF PF.POS rope-DEF wind stick-DEF OBL	The man wound the rope around the stick.
Mandinka	20	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo loŋ.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo loŋ	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF know	The man knows the boy.
Mandinka	21	Elicited from speaker	Ñiŋ́ kewô lónta báake.		ñiŋ́ kew-ô lón-ta báake	DEM man-DEF know-PF.POS very	This man is a very learned person.
Mandinka	22	Elicited from speaker	Ñiŋ́ kewó ye mansaalijámaa loŋ.		ñiŋ́ kew-ó ye mansaali-jámaa loŋ	DEM man-DEF PF.POS riddle-many know	This man knows many riddles.
Mandinka	23	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanôo féle.		kew-ó ye kambaan-ôo féle	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF look_at	The man looked at the boy.
Mandinka	24	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo je.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo je	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF see	The man saw the boy.
Mandinka	25	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanôo jéta bâa dáala.		kambaan-ôo jé-ta bâa dáala	boy-DEF see-PF.POS river.DEF near	The boy was seen near the river.
Mandinka	26	Elicited from speaker	Finkintéw-o-lu búka í je.		finkintéw-o-lu búka í je	blind-DEF-PL HAB.NEG REFL see	The blind do not see.
Mandinka	27	Elicited from speaker	Wulóo ye díndíŋo súmbu.		wul-óo ye díndíŋ-o súmbu	dog-DEF PF.POS child-DEF smell	The dog smelled the child.
Mandinka	28	Elicited from speaker	Kambaan-ôo sílán-ta kew-ó la.		kambaan-ôo sílán-ta kew-ó la	boy-DEF fear-PF.POS man-DEF OBL	The boy feared the man.
Mandinka	29	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanôo sílándi.		kew-ó ye kambaan-ôo sílá-ndi	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF fear-CAUS	The man frightened the boy.
Mandinka	30	Elicited from speaker	Kewó lafíta kambaanóo la.		kew-ó lafí-ta kambaan-óo la	man-DEF like-PF.POS boy-DEF OBL	The man liked the boy.
Mandinka	31	Elicited from speaker	Kewó lafíta kódoo la.		kew-ó lafí-ta kód-oo la	man-DEF want-PF.POS money-DEF OBL	The man wants money.
Mandinka	32	Elicited from speaker	Muŋ́ ne yé kambaanoó lafindi kitáaboo la?		muŋ́ ne yé kambaan-oó lafi-ndi kitáab-oo la	what FOC PF.POS boy-DEF want-CAUS book-DEF OBL	What made the boy like the book?
Mandinka	33	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo lafíta kitáaboo la.		kambaan-óo lafí-ta kitáab-oo la	boy-DEF like/want-PF.POS book-DEF OBL	The boy wants/likes the book.
Mandinka	34	Elicited from speaker	Súŋkútoo yé ñiŋ báyoo kanu.		súŋkút-oo yé ñiŋ báy-oo kanu	girl-DEF PF.POS DEM cloth-DEF like	The girl likes this cloth.
Mandinka	35	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye súŋkútoo kanu.		kambaan-óo ye súŋkút-oo kanu	boy-DEF PF.POS girl-DEF love	The boy loves the girl.
Mandinka	36	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a míira kó musóo ye a kanu.		kew-ó ye a míira kó mus-óo ye a kanu	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG think QUOT woman-DEF PF.POS 3SG love	The man thinks that the woman loves him.
Mandinka	37	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye í míira kambaanóo la kúwo la.		kew-ó ye í míira kambaan-óo la kúw-o la	man-DEF PF.POS REFL think boy-DEF GEN matter-DEF OBL	The man thought about the boy.
Mandinka	38	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanôo ñíni.		kew-ó ye kambaan-ôo ñíni	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF search	The man searched for the boy.
Mandinka	39	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye dendikóo kuu.		mus-óo ye dendik-óo kuu	woman-DEF PF.POS shirt-DEF wash	The woman washed the shirt.
Mandinka	40	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye díndíŋo kuu.		mus-óo ye díndíŋ-o kuu	woman-DEF PF.POS child-DEF wash	The woman washed the child.
Mandinka	41	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo kuúta.		díndíŋ-o kuú-ta	child-DEF wash-PF.POS	The child has been washed.
Mandinka	42	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye í kuu.		mus-óo ye í kuu	woman-DEF PF.POS REFL wash	The woman washed (herself).
Mandinka	43	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kuuróo ke.		mus-óo ye kuu-r-óo ke	woman-DEF PF.POS wash-ANTIP-DEF do	The woman did the washing.
Mandinka	44	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musóo kuurindi dendikóo la.		kew-ó ye mus-óo kuu-rindi dendik-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF wash-CAUS shirt-DEF OBL	The man made the woman wash the shirt.
Mandinka	45	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanôo máakóyi kódoo to.		kew-ó ye kambaan-ôo máakóyi kód-oo to	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF help money-DEF LOC	The man helped the boy financially.
Mandinka	46	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye súŋkútoo báyíndi.		kew-ó ye súŋkút-oo báyíndi	man-DEF PF.POS girl-DEF follow	The man followed the girl.
Mandinka	47	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye ŋáníŋo bóndi díndíŋo siŋô kóno.		kew-ó ye ŋáníŋ-o bó-ndi díndíŋ-o siŋ-ô kóno	man-DEF PF.POS thorn-DEF go_out-CAUS child-DEF foot-DEF in	The man removed the thorn from the child's foot.
Mandinka	48	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye subóo bula kufôo kóno.		kew-ó ye sub-óo bula kuf-ôo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS meat-DEF settle bag-DEF in	The man put the meat into the bag.
Mandinka	49	Elicited from speaker	Kewó buláta kúlúŋo kóno.		kew-ó bulá-ta kúlúŋ-o kóno	man-DEF settle-PF.POS boat-DEF in	The man boarded the ship.
Mandinka	50	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye lóo bulandi saréetoo kóno.		kew-ó ye lóo bula-ndi saréet-oo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS wood settle-CAUS cart-DEF in	The man loaded the wood into the cart.
Mandinka	51	Elicited from speaker	Lóo bulandíta saréetoo kóno.		lóo bula-ndí-ta saréet-oo kóno	wood settle-CAUS-PF.POS cart-DEF in	The wood was loaded into the cart.
Mandinka	52	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo bulandirindi lóo la saréetoo kóno.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo bula-ndi-rindi lóo la saréet-oo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF settle-CAUS-CAUS wood OBL cart-DEF in	The man made the boy load the wood into the cart.
Mandinka	53	Elicited from speaker	Kewó buláta súŋkútoo nóoma.		kew-ó bulá-ta súŋkút-oo nóoma	man-DEF settle-PF.POS girl-DEF on_the_track	The man followed the girl.
Mandinka	54	Elicited from speaker	Kewô hákíloo buláta kambaanóo la.		kew-ô hákíl-oo bulá-ta kambaan-óo la	man-DEF mind-DEF settle-PF.POS boy-DEF OBL	The man remembered the boy.
Mandinka	55	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kewô hákíloo bulandi kambaanóo la.		mus-óo ye kew-ô hákíl-oo bula-ndi kambaan-óo la	woman-DEF PF.POS man-DEF mind-DEF settle-CAUS boy-DEF OBL	The woman reminded the man of the boy.
Mandinka	56	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo bula dookúwo to.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo bula dookúw-o to	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF settle work-DEF LOC	The man made the boy work.
Mandinka	57	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye tooñáa fo kambaanóo ye.		kew-ó ye tooñáa fo kambaan-óo ye	man-DEF PF.POS truth.DEF tell boy-DEF BEN	The man told the truth to the boy.
Mandinka	58	Elicited from speaker	Tooñâa fóta kambaanóo ye.		tooñâa fó-ta kambaan-óo ye	truth.DEF tell-PF.POS boy-DEF BEN	The truth was told to the boy.
Mandinka	59	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kewô fóoríndi tooñáa la kambaanóo ye.		mus-óo ye kew-ô fóo-ríndi tooñáa la kambaan-óo ye	woman-DEF PF.POS man-DEF tell-CAUS truth.DEF OBL boy-DEF BEN	The woman made the man tell the truth to the boy.
Mandinka	60	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ka Mandinkakáŋo fo.		kew-ó ka Mandinka-káŋ-o fo	man-DEF HAB.POS Mandinka-language-DEF speaks	The man speaks Mandinka.
Mandinka	61	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo (la kúmoo) fó musóo ye.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo la kúm-oo fó mus-óo ye	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF GEN word-DEF tell woman-DEF BEN	The man talked to the woman about the boy.
Mandinka	62	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a fó kambaanóo ye kó 'haní'.		kew-ó ye a fó kambaan-óo ye kó 'haní'	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG say boy-DEF PF.POS QUOT 'no'	The man said 'no' to the boy.
Mandinka	63	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kewô dáani kódoo la.		kambaan-óo ye kew-ô dáani kód-oo la	boy-DEF PF.POS man-DEF ask money-DEF OBL	The boy asked the man for money.
Mandinka	64	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kódoo dáani kewô búlu.		kambaan-óo ye kód-oo dáani kew-ô búlu	boy-DEF PF.POS money-DEF ask man-DEF POSS	The boy asked the man for money.
Mandinka	65	Elicited from speaker	Kewô sáríta.		kew-ô sárí-ta	man-DEF scream-PF.POS	The man screamed.
Mandinka	66	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a dímmúsoo too laa Ámi la.		kew-ó ye a dímmús-oo too laa Ámi la	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG daughter-DEF name put Amy OBL	The man called his daughter Amy.
Mandinka	67	Elicited from speaker	Kewô sáríta súŋkútoo kaŋ.		kew-ô sárí-ta súŋkút-oo kaŋ	man-DEF shout-PF.POS girl-DEF on	The man shouted to the girl.
Mandinka	68	Elicited from speaker	Kewô sáríta súŋkútoo tóo ti.		kew-ô sárí-ta súŋkút-oo tóo ti	man-DEF shout-PF.POS girl-DEF name.DEF ESS	The man shouted the girl's name.
Mandinka	69	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye súŋkútoo tôo sári.		kew-ó ye súŋkút-oo tôo sári	man-DEF PF.POS girl-DEF name.DEF shout	The man shouted the girl's name.
Mandinka	70	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye féŋolu duŋ díndíŋo la.		mus-óo ye féŋ-o-lu duŋ díndíŋ-o la	woman-DEF PF.POS thing-DEF-PL put_on child-DEF OBL	The woman dressed the child.
Mandinka	71	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kurutóo duŋ díndíŋo la.		mus-óo ye kurut-óo duŋ díndíŋ-o la	woman-DEF PF.POS trousers-DEF put_on child-DEF OBL	The woman put trousers on the child.
Mandinka	72	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ye kurutóo duŋ.		díndíŋ-o ye kurut-óo duŋ	child-DEF PF.POS trousers-DEF put_on	The child put on trousers.
Mandinka	73	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ye a la féŋolu duŋ.		díndíŋ-o ye a la féŋ-o-lu duŋ	child-DEF PF.POS 3SG GEN thing-DEF-PL put_on	The child dressed.
Mandinka	74	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ye í duŋ.		díndíŋ-o ye í duŋ	child-DEF PF.POS REFL put_on	The child dressed.
Mandinka	75	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye díndíŋo dundirindi kurtóo la.		mus-óo ye díndíŋ-o dun-dirindi kurt-óo la	woman-DEF PF.POS child-DEF put_on-CAUS trousers-DEF OBL	The woman made the child put on trousers.
Mandinka	76	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a booráa lii.		kew-ó ye a booráa lii	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG beard.DEF shave	The man shaved (his beard).
Mandinka	77	Elicited from speaker	Jumáa le ye í lii?		jumáa le ye í lii	who FOC PF.POS REFL shave	Who shaved you?
Mandinka	78	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye búŋo loo biríkoo la.		kew-ó ye búŋ-o loo birík-oo la	man-DEF PF.POS house-DEF erect brick-DEF OBL	The man built the house with bricks.
Mandinka	79	Elicited from speaker	Kewó loóta.		kew-ó loó-ta	man-DEF stand-PF.POS	The man stood up / stopped.
Mandinka	80	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye í loo.		kew-ó ye í loo	man-DEF PF.POS REFL stand	The man stood up / stopped.
Mandinka	81	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kulúŋo londi.		mus-óo ye kulúŋ-o lo-ndi	woman-DEF PF.POS mortar-DEF stand-CAUS	The woman put the mortar in standing position.
Mandinka	82	Elicited from speaker	Moólu ye túlúŋo loo.		moó-lu ye túlúŋ-o loo	person.DEF-PL PF.POS dance-DEF organize	The people organized a dance.
Mandinka	83	Elicited from speaker	Búŋo loóta.		búŋ-o loó-ta	house-DEF erect-PF.POS	The house was built.
Mandinka	84	Elicited from speaker	Kewó boyíta yíroo sánto, a káŋo kátíta.		kew-ó boyí-ta yír-oo sánto a káŋ-o kátí-ta	man-DEF fall-PF.POS tree-DEF on_top 3SG neck-DEF break-PF.POS	The man fell from the tree and broke his neck.
Mandinka	85	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye dokôo káti.		kambaan-óo ye dok-ôo káti	boy-DEF PF.POS stick-DEF break	The boy broke the stick.
Mandinka	86	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a ñâa káti.		kew-ó ye a ñâa káti	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG eye.DEF break	The man blinked.
Mandinka	87	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye díndíŋolu tu súwo kóno.		mus-óo ye díndíŋ-o-lu tu súw-o kóno	woman-DEF PF.POS child-DEF-PL leave house-DEF in	The woman left the children in the house.
Mandinka	88	Elicited from speaker	Musukéebaa fula túta saatéwo to.		musu-kéebaa fula tú-ta saatéw-o to	woman-old two remain-PF.POS village-DEF LOC	Two old women remained in the village.
Mandinka	89	Elicited from speaker	A túta jee musukéebaa fula (la).		a tú-ta jee musu-kéebaa fula la	3SG remain-PF.POS there woman-old two OBL	There remained two old women.
Mandinka	90	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye palantéeroo teyi beróo la.		kambaan-óo ye palantéer-oo teyi ber-óo la	boy-DEF PF.POS window-DEF break stone-DEF OBL	The boy broke the window with the stone.
Mandinka	91	Elicited from speaker	Kíloo teyíta.		kíl-oo teyí-ta	egg-DEF break-PF.POS	The egg broke.
Mandinka	92	Elicited from speaker	Kewô bóta saatéwo to.		kew-ô bó-ta saatéw-o to	man-DEF leave-PF.POS village-DEF LOC	The man left the village.
Mandinka	93	Elicited from speaker	Kullíimaarôo bóta.		kullíimaar-ôo bó-ta	rainbow-DEF go_out-PF.POS	A rainbow appeared.
Mandinka	94	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a lá dendikóo bo.		kew-ó ye a lá dendik-óo bo	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG GEN shirt-DEF take_off	The man took off his shirt.
Mandinka	95	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye ŋáníŋo bóndi a siŋô kóno.		kew-ó ye ŋáníŋ-o bó-ndi a siŋ-ô kóno	man-DEF PF.POS thorn-DEF go_out-CAUS 3SG foot-DEF in	The man removed the thorn from his foot.
Mandinka	96	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye saatéwo bula.		kew-ó ye saatéw-o bula	man-DEF PF.POS village-DEF abandon	The man left the village (i.e. he does not live in the village anymore).
Mandinka	97	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye dolóo bula.		kew-ó ye dol-óo bula	man-DEF PF.POS wine-DEF abandon	The man stopped drinking.
Mandinka	98	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye lóo laa saréetoo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye lóo laa saréet-oo kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS wood.DEF lay cart-DEF on	The man put/loaded the wood on the cart.
Mandinka	99	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye mbajóo laa díndíŋo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye mbaj-óo laa díndíŋ-o kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS blanket-DEF lay child-DEF on	The man put a blanket on the child.
Mandinka	100	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye í laa laaráŋo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye í laa laaráŋ-o kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS REFL lay bed-DEF on	The man lay down on the bed.
Mandinka	101	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye baramatôo lándi laaráŋo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye baramatôo lá-ndi laaráŋ-o kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS wounded_person lie-CAUS bed-DEF on	The man laid the wounded person on the bed.
Mandinka	102	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanôo láaríndi lóo la saréetoo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye kambaan-ôo láa-ríndi lóo la saréet-oo kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF lay-CAUS wood.DEF OBL cart-DEF on	The man made the boy load the wood on the cart.
Mandinka	103	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musóolu lándíríndi baramatóo la laaráŋo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye mus-óo-lu lá-ndí-ríndi baramatóo la laaráŋ-o kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF-PL lie-CAUS-CAUS wounded_person.DEF OBL bed-DEF on	The man made the women lay the wounded person on the bed.
Mandinka	104	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kitáaboo ke táabúloo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye kitáab-oo ke táabúl-oo kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS book-DEF put table-DEF on	The man put the book on the table.
Mandinka	105	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye dendikóolu ke kúnéwo kóno.		mus-óo ye dendik-óo-lu ke kúnéw-o kóno	woman-DEF PF.POS clothes-DEF-PL put chest-DEF in	The woman put the clothes in the chest.
Mandinka	106	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye saá faa faŋó la.		kambaan-óo ye saá faa faŋ-ó la	boy-DEF PF.POS snake.DEF kill cutlass-DEF OBL	The boy killed the snake with a cutlass.
Mandinka	107	Elicited from speaker	Saajíyo faáta.		saajíy-o faá-ta	sheep-DEF kill/die-PF.POS	The sheep died / was killed.
Mandinka	108	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a díŋo faarindi saajíyo la.		kew-ó ye a díŋ-o faa-rindi saajíy-o la	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG son-DEF kill-CAUS sheep-DEF OBL	The man made his son kill the sheep.
Mandinka	109	Elicited from speaker	Kewó saáta.		kew-ó saá-ta	man-DEF die-PF.POS	The man died.
Mandinka	110	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye saâ búsa fáloo la.		kambaan-óo ye saâ búsa fál-oo la	boy-DEF PF.POS snake.DEF hit/beat stick-DEF OBL	The boy hit / beat the snake with a stick.
Mandinka	111	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye tiyôo búsa.		kew-ó ye tiy-ôo búsa	man-DEF PF.POS peanuts-DEF hit/beat	The man threshed the peanuts.
Mandinka	112	Elicited from speaker	Tiyôo búsáta.		tiy-ôo búsá-ta	peanuts-DEF hit/beat-PF.POS	The peanuts were threshed.
Mandinka	113	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye saá maa fáloo la.		kambaan-óo ye saá maa fál-oo la	boy-DEF PF.POS snake.DEF touch stick-DEF OBL	The boy touched the snake with a stick.
Mandinka	114	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye subóo kuntu muróo la.		mus-óo ye sub-óo kuntu mur-óo la	woman-DEF PF.POS meat-DEF cut knife-DEF OBL	The woman cut the meat with a knife.
Mandinka	115	Elicited from speaker	Subóo kuntúta.		sub-óo kuntú-ta	meat-DEF cut-PF.POS	The meat was cut.
Mandinka	116	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye ñantáŋo teyi faŋó la.		kew-ó ye ñantáŋ-o teyi faŋ-ó la	man-DEF PF.POS thatching_grass-DEF cut cutlass-DEF OBL	The man cut thatching-grass with a cutlass.
Mandinka	117	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kitáaboo taa kambaanôo búlu.		kew-ó ye kitáab-oo taa kambaan-ôo búlu	man-DEF PF.POS book-DEF take boy-DEF POSS	The man took the book from the boy.
Mandinka	118	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kódoo maabo kewó ma.		mus-óo ye kód-oo maabo kew-ó ma	woman-DEF PF.POS money-DEF hide man-DEF OBL	The woman hid the money from the man.
Mandinka	119	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye díndíŋo maabondi kewó ma.		mus-óo ye díndíŋ-o maabo-ndi kew-ó ma	woman-DEF PF.POS child-DEF hide-CAUS man-DEF OBL	The woman hid the child from the man.
Mandinka	120	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye díndíŋo maaborindi kódoo la kewó ma.		mus-óo ye díndíŋ-o maabo-rindi kód-oo la kew-ó ma	woman-DEF PF.POS child-DEF hide-CAUS money-DEF OBL man-DEF OBL	The woman made the child hide the money from the man.
Mandinka	121	Elicited from speaker	Kód-oo maabó-ta kew-ó ma.		kód-oo maabó-ta kew-ó ma	money-DEF hide-PF.POS man-DEF OBL	The money was hidden from the man.
Mandinka	122	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo maabóta kewó ma.		díndíŋ-o maabó-ta kew-ó ma	child-DEF hide-PF.POS man-DEF OBL	The child hid from the man.
Mandinka	123	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ye í maabo kewó ma.		díndíŋ-o ye í maabo kew-ó ma	child-DEF PF.POS REFL hide man-DEF OBL	The child hid from the man.
Mandinka	124	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye natáaloo yitandi musóo la.		kew-ó ye natáal-oo yitandi mus-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS picture-DEF show woman-DEF OBL	The man showed the picture to the woman.
Mandinka	125	Elicited from speaker	Natáaloo yitandíta musóo la.		natáal-oo yitandí-ta mus-óo la	picture-DEF show-PF.POS woman-DEF OBL	The picture was shown to the woman.
Mandinka	126	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye díndíŋo yitandirindi natáaloo la musóo ye.		kew-ó ye díndíŋ-o yitandi-rindi natáal-oo la mus-óo ye	man-DEF PF.POS child-DEF show-CAUS picture-DEF OBL woman-DEF BEN	The man made the child show the picture to the woman.
Mandinka	127	Elicited from speaker	Karammóo ye kitáaboo díi kambaanóo la.		karammóo ye kitáab-oo díi kambaan-óo la	teacher.DEF PF.POS book-DEF give boy-DEF OBL	The teacher gave the book to the boy.
Mandinka	128	Elicited from speaker	Kitáaboo díita kambaanóo la.		kitáab-oo díi-ta kambaan-óo la	book-DEF give-PF.POS boy-DEF OBL	The book was given to the boy.
Mandinka	129	Elicited from speaker	Karammóo ye kambaanóo so kitáaboo la.		karammóo ye kambaan-óo so kitáab-oo la	teacher PF.POS boy-DEF give book-DEF OBL	The teacher gave the book to the boy.
Mandinka	130	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye batáayoo kíi a karammóo ye.		kambaan-óo ye batáay-oo kíi a karammóo ye	boy-DEF PF.POS letter-DEF send 3SG teacher.DEF BEN	The boy sent a letter to his teacher.
Mandinka	131	Elicited from speaker	Súŋkútoo yé laríñcoo wóto.		súŋkút-oo yé laríñc-oo wóto	girl-DEF PF.POS orange-DEF peel	The girl peeled the orange.
Mandinka	132	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo samba karambúŋo to.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo samba karambúŋ-o to	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF bring/carry school-DEF LOC	The boy brought/carried the book to the school.
Mandinka	133	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo samba a karammóo ye.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo samba a karammóo ye	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF bring/carry 3SG teacher.DEF BEN	The boy brought/carried the book to his teacher.
Mandinka	134	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo sambá naŋ a karammóo ye.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo sambá naŋ a karammóo ye	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF bring/carry CTRP 3SG teacher.DEF BEN	The boy brought the book to his teacher.
Mandinka	135	Elicited from speaker	Kewô táata.		kew-ô táa-ta	man-DEF go-PF.POS	The man went away.
Mandinka	136	Elicited from speaker	Kewô táata kúŋkoo to.		kew-ô táa-ta kúŋk-oo to	man-DEF go-PF.POS field-DEF LOC	The man went to the field.
Mandinka	137	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanôo táata kitáaboo ti karambúŋo to.		kambaan-ôo táa-ta kitáab-oo ti karambúŋ-o to	boy-DEF go-PF.POS book-DEF with school-DEF LOC	The boy carried the book to school.
Mandinka	138	Elicited from speaker	Kewó naáta saatéwo to.		kew-ó naá-ta saatéw-o to	man-DEF come-PF.POS village-DEF LOC	The man came to the village.
Mandinka	139	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo naáta kitáaboo ti a karammóo ye.		kambaan-óo naá-ta kitáab-oo ti a karammóo ye	boy-DEF come-PF.POS book-DEF with 3SG teacher.DEF BEN	The boy brought the book to his teacher.
Mandinka	140	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo naáta kitáaboo ti karambúŋo to.		kambaan-óo naá-ta kitáab-oo ti karambúŋ-o to	boy-DEF come-PF.POS book-DEF with school-DEF LOC	The boy brought the book to school.
Mandinka	141	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo naati a karammóo ye.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo naa-ti a karammóo ye	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF come-with 3SG teacher.DEF BEN	The boy brought the book to his teacher.
Mandinka	142	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo naati karambúŋo to.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo naa-ti karambúŋ-o to	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF come-with school-DEF LOC	The boy brought the book to school.
Mandinka	143	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye berôo fáyi palantéeroo kaŋ.		kambaan-óo ye ber-ôo fáyi palantéer-oo kaŋ	boy-DEF PF.POS stone-DEF throw window-DEF on	The boy threw the stone into the window.
Mandinka	144	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye palantéeroo búŋ beróo la.		kambaan-óo ye palantéer-oo búŋ ber-óo la	boy-DEF PF.POS window-DEF aim stone-DEF OBL	The boy threw the stone into the window.
Mandinka	145	Elicited from speaker	Kúmbúrúŋo ye díndíŋo buŋ.		kúmbúrúŋ-o ye díndíŋ-o buŋ	bee-DEF PF.POS child-DEF sting	A bee stung the child.
Mandinka	146	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye suwó siti yíroo bála julóo la.		kew-ó ye suw-ó siti yír-oo bála jul-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS horse-DEF tie tree-DEF in_contact rope-DEF OBL	The man tied the horse to the tree with a rope.
Mandinka	147	Elicited from speaker	Suwó sitíta yíroo bála.		suw-ó sití-ta yír-oo bála	horse-DEF tie-PF.POS tree-DEF in_contact	The horse was tied to a tree.
Mandinka	148	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo sitirindi suwó la yíroo bála.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo siti-rindi suw-ó la yír-oo bála	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF tie-CAUS horse-DEF OBL tree-DEF in_contact	The man made the boy tie the horse to the tree.
Mandinka	149	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye jíyo boŋ baŋkóo to.		kew-ó ye jíy-o boŋ baŋk-óo to	man-DEF PF.POS water-DEF pour ground-DEF LOC	The man poured the water on the ground.
Mandinka	150	Elicited from speaker	Jíyo bońta baŋkóo to.		jíy-o boń-ta baŋk-óo to	water-DEF pour-PF.POS ground-DEF LOC	The water was poured on the ground.
Mandinka	151	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye jíyo soo wéeroo kóno.		kew-ó ye jíy-o soo wéer-oo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS water-DEF pour glass-DEF in	The man poured the water into the glass.
Mandinka	152	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musóo soorindi jíyo la wéeroo kóno.		kew-ó ye mus-óo soo-rindi jíy-o la wéer-oo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF pour-CAUS water-DEF OBL glass-DEF in	The man made the woman pour the water into the glass.
Mandinka	153	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye díndíŋo múura mbajóo la.		kew-ó ye díndíŋ-o múura mbaj-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS child-DEF cover blanket-DEF OBL	The man covered the child with the blanket.
Mandinka	154	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye bootôo fándi maanóo la.		kew-ó ye boot-ôo fá-ndi maan-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS bag-DEF be_full-CAUS rice-DEF OBL	The man filled the bag with rice.
Mandinka	155	Elicited from speaker	Bootôo fándíta maanóo la.		boot-ôo fá-ndí-ta maan-óo la	bag-DEF be_full-CAUS-PF.POS rice-DEF OBL	The bag was filled with rice.
Mandinka	156	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a díŋo fándíríndi bootóo la.		kew-ó ye a díŋ-o fá-ndí-ríndi boot-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG son-DEF be_full-CAUS-CAUS bag-DEF OBL	The man made his son fill the bag.
Mandinka	157	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye a díŋo fándíríndi maanóo la bootôo kóno.		kew-ó ye a díŋ-o fá-ndí-ríndi maan-óo la boot-ôo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS 3SG son-DEF be_full-CAUS-CAUS rice-DEF OBL bag-DEF in	The man made his son fill the bag with rice.
Mandinka	158	Elicited from speaker	Diŋkôo fáata jíyo la.		diŋk-ôo fáa-ta jíy-o la	hole-DEF be_full-PF.POS water-DEF OBL	The hole is full of water.
Mandinka	159	Elicited from speaker	Jíyo ye diŋkóo faa.		jíy-o ye diŋk-óo faa	water-DEF PF.POS hole-DEF fill	The water filled up the hole.
Mandinka	160	Elicited from speaker	Kewó tootóota.		kew-ó tootóo-ta	man-DEF cough-PF.POS	The man coughed.
Mandinka	161	Elicited from speaker	Siisíyo yé kewó tootondi.		siisíy-o yé kew-ó tooto-ndi	smoke-DEF PF.POS man-DEF cough-CAUS	The smoke makes the man cough.
Mandinka	162	Elicited from speaker	Kewó seléta koŋkôo sánto.		kew-ó selé-ta koŋk-ôo sánto	man-DEF climb-PF.POS hill-DEF on_top	The man climbed up the hill.
Mandinka	163	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye koŋkóo sele.		kew-ó ye koŋk-óo sele	man-DEF PF.POS hill-DEF climb	The man climbed up the hill.
Mandinka	164	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo selendi suwô sánto.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo sele-ndi suw-ô sánto	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF climb-CAUS horse-DEF on.top	The man helped the boy get on the horse.
Mandinka	165	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo boríta.		díndíŋ-o borí-ta	child-DEF run-PF.POS	The child ran (away).
Mandinka	166	Elicited from speaker	Kátoo boríta baŋkóo kaŋ.		kát-oo borí-ta baŋk-óo kaŋ	ball-DEF run-PF.POS ground-DEF on	The ball rolled on the ground.
Mandinka	167	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ye í bori.		díndíŋ-o ye í bori	child-DEF PF.POS REFL run	The child ran (away).
Mandinka	168	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye suwó bori.		kew-ó ye suw-ó bori	man-DEF PF.POS horse-DEF ride	The man rode the horse.
Mandinka	169	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye suwó borindi.		kew-ó ye suw-ó bori-ndi	man-DEF PF.POS horse-DEF run-CAUS	The man rode the horse / made the horse run.
Mandinka	170	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo siíta siiráŋo kaŋ.		díndíŋ-o sií-ta siiráŋ-o kaŋ	child-DEF sit-PF.POS chair-DEF on	The child sat on the chair.
Mandinka	171	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye díndíŋo sindi siiráŋo kaŋ.		kew-ó ye díndíŋ-o si-ndi siiráŋ-o kaŋ	man-DEF PF.POS child-DEF sit-CAUS chair-DEF on	The man sat the child on the chair.
Mandinka	172	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo bárímmaa bé siíriŋ Siicóori.		díndíŋ-o bárímmaa bé sií-riŋ Siicóori	child-DEF uncle LOC.COP sit-RES Ziguinchor	The child's uncle lives in Ziguinchor.
Mandinka	173	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo sawúnta.		díndíŋ-o sawún-ta	child-DEF jump-PF.POS	The child jumped.
Mandinka	174	Elicited from speaker	Kewó sawúnta a lá koridaakútoo to.		kew-ó sawún-ta a lá koridaa-kút-oo to	man-DEF move-PF.POS 3SG GEN house-new-DEF LOC	The man moved to his new house.
Mandinka	175	Elicited from speaker	Ñaŋkúm-oo sawún-ta siiráŋ-o kaŋ.		ñaŋkúm-oo sawún-ta siiráŋ-o kaŋ	cat-DEF jump-PF.POS chair-DEF on	The cat jumped on the chair.
Mandinka	176	Naturalistic written	'File' sawundi 'folder' to!		file sawu-ndi folder to	file move-CAUS folder LOC	Transfer the file to a folder!
Mandinka	177	Elicited from speaker	Súŋkútoo yé doŋkilóo laa.		súŋkút-oo yé doŋkil-óo la	girl-DEF PF.POS song-DEF sing	The girl sang (a song).
Mandinka	178	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye taalíŋo laa díndíŋo ye.		mus-óo ye taalíŋ-o laa díndíŋ-o ye	woman-DEF PF.POS story-DEF tell child-DEF BEN	The woman told a story to the child.
Mandinka	179	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanôo jéléta.		kambaan-ôo jélé-ta	boy-DEF laugh-PF.POS	The boy laughed.
Mandinka	180	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanôo jéléta súŋkútoo la.		kambaan-ôo jélé-ta súŋkút-oo la	boy-DEF laugh-PF.POS girl-DEF OBL	The boy laughed at the girl.
Mandinka	181	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye súŋkútoo jéle.		kambaan-óo ye súŋkút-oo jéle	boy-DEF PF.POS girl-DEF laugh	The boy laughed at the girl.
Mandinka	182	Elicited from speaker	Muŋ́ ne yé kambaanoô jéléndi?		muŋ́ ne yé kambaan-oô jélé-ndi	what FOC PF.POS boy-DEF laugh-CAUS	What made the boy laugh?
Mandinka	183	Elicited from speaker	Ŋ́ búloo ka ŋ́ dímiŋ.		ŋ́ búl-oo ka ŋ́ dímiŋ	1SG arm-DEF HAB.POS 1SG hurt	My arm is hurting.
Mandinka	184	Elicited from speaker	Ñiŋ kínoo si í kónoo dímiŋ.		ñiŋ kín-oo si í kón-oo dímiŋ	DEM food-DEF POT 2SG stomach-DEF hurt	This food may hurt your stomach.
Mandinka	185	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye ŋ́ búloo dete fó a ye ŋ́ dímíndi.		kew-ó ye ŋ́ búl-oo dete fó a ye ŋ́ dímí-ndi	man-DEF PF.POS 1SG arm-DEF squeeze until 3SG PF.POS 1SG hurt-CAUS	The man squeezed my arm to the extent that he hurt me.
Mandinka	186	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋolu túlúnta.		díndíŋ-o-lu túlún-ta	child-DEF-PL play-PF.POS	The children played.
Mandinka	187	Elicited from speaker	Kewó túlúnta a káŋo la.		kew-ó túlún-ta a káŋ-o la	man-DEF play-PF.POS 3SG word-DEF OBL	The man did not keep his word (lit. played with his word).
Mandinka	188	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musôo túluŋ.		kew-ó ye mus-ôo túluŋ	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF play	The man behaved frivolously towards the woman.
Mandinka	189	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye díndíŋolu túlúndi.		mus-óo ye díndíŋ-o-lu túlú-ndi	woman-DEF PF.POS child-DEF-PL play-CAUS	The woman made the children play / played with the children.
Mandinka	190	Elicited from speaker	Kewó sunúta.		kew-ó sunú-ta	man-DEF be_sad-PF.POS	The man got sad.
Mandinka	191	Elicited from speaker	Ñiŋ kúmoo yé kewó sunu.		ñiŋ kúm-oo yé kew-ó sunu	DEM word-DEF PF.POS man-DEF make_sad	These words made the man sad.
Mandinka	192	Elicited from speaker	Musóo la saayáa ye kewó sunundi.		mus-óo la saayáa ye kew-ó sunu-ndi	woman-DEF GEN death.DEF PF.POS man-DEF be_sad-CAUS	The woman's death made the man sad.
Mandinka	193	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋolu kóŋkóta.		díndíŋ-o-lu kóŋkó-ta	child-DEF-PL be_hungry-PF.POS	The children got hungry.
Mandinka	194	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye díndíŋolu kóŋkóndi.		mus-óo ye díndíŋ-o-lu kóŋkó-ndi	woman-DEF PF.POS child-DEF-PL be_hungry-CAUS	The woman starved the children.
Mandinka	195	Elicited from speaker	Kúlúŋo túunénta bâa kóno.		kúlúŋ-o túunén-ta bâa kóno	boat-DEF sink-PF.POS river.DEF in	The boat sank into the river.
Mandinka	196	Elicited from speaker	Saatéwo janíta.		saatéw-o janí-ta	village-DEF burn-PF.POS	The village burned / was burnt.
Mandinka	197	Elicited from speaker	Jáwoolu yé saatéwo jani.		jáw-oo-lu yé saatéw-o jani	enemy-DEF-PL PF.POS village-DEF burn	The enemies burned the village.
Mandinka	198	Elicited from speaker	Dendikóo jaáta tilóo la.		dendik-óo jaá-ta til-óo la	shirt-DEF be_dry-PF.POS sun-DEF OBL	The shirt dried up in the sun.
Mandinka	199	Elicited from speaker	Tilóo ye dendikóo jandi.		til-óo ye dendik-óo ja-ndi	sun-DEF PF.POS shirt-DEF be_dry-CAUS	The sun dried up the shirt.
Mandinka	200	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye tiyóo sii beróo la.		mus-óo ye tiy-óo sii ber-óo la	woman-DEF PF.POS peanut-DEF grind stone-DEF OBL	The woman ground the peanuts with a stone.
Mandinka	201	Elicited from speaker	Súŋkútoo ye kíníjólóndáŋo kóŋkoŋ táabúloo kaŋ.		súŋkút-oo ye kíníjólóndáŋ-o kóŋkoŋ táabúl-oo kaŋ	girl-DEF PF.POS crumbs-DEF wipe table-DEF on	The girl wiped the crumbs from the table.
Mandinka	202	Elicited from speaker	Súŋkútoo ye táabúloo fíta.		súŋkút-oo ye táabúl-oo fíta	girl-DEF PF.POS table-DEF wipe	The girl wiped the table.
Mandinka	203	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye diŋkóo siŋ.		kew-ó ye diŋk-óo siŋ	man-DEF PF.POS hole-DEF dig	The man dug a hole.
Mandinka	204	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye ñambóo siŋ.		kew-ó ye ñamb-óo siŋ	man-DEF PF.POS cassava-DEF dig	The man dug for cassava.
Mandinka	205	Elicited from speaker	Kewólu yé wotóo ñori.		kew-ó-lu yé wot-óo ñori	man-DEF-PL PF.POS car-DEF push	The men pushed the car.
Mandinka	206	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo ñoríta.		díndíŋ-o ñorí-ta	child-DEF move-PF.POS	The child moved (out of the way).
Mandinka	207	Elicited from speaker	Ñáatóŋkoo yé beŋó ñorindi.		ñáatóŋk-oo yé beŋ-ó ñori-ndi	president-DEF PF.POS meeting-DEF move-CAUS	The president postponed the meeting.
Mandinka	208	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo suuñaa a karammôo búlu.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo suuñaa a karammôo búlu	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF steal 3SG teacher.DEF POSS	The boy stole the book from his teacher.
Mandinka	209	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye a karammóo suuñaa kitáaboo la.		kambaan-óo ye a karammóo suuñaa kitáab-oo la	boy-DEF PF.POS 3SG teacher.DEF steal book-DEF OBL	The boy stole the book from his teacher.
Mandinka	210	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambáanoo nikindi wotóo la.		kew-ó ye kambáan-oo niki-ndi wot-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF learn-CAUS car-DEF OBL	The man taught driving to the boy.
Mandinka	211	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye wotóo nikiŋ.		kambaan-óo ye wot-óo nikiŋ	boy-DEF PF.POS car-DEF learn	The boy learned driving.
Mandinka	212	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo karandi Mandinkakáŋo la.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo kara-ndi Mandinka-káŋ-o la	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF learn-CAUS Mandinka-language-DEF OBL	The man taught Mandinka to the boy.
Mandinka	213	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye Mandinkakáŋo karandi kambaanóo ye.		kew-ó ye Mandinka-káŋ-o kara-ndi kambaan-óo ye	man-DEF PF.POS Mandinka-language-DEF learn-CAUS boy-DEF BEN	The man taught Mandinka to the boy.
Mandinka	214	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye Mandinkakáŋo karaŋ.		kambaan-óo ye Mandinka-káŋ-o karaŋ	boy-DEF PF.POS Mandinka-language-DEF learn	The boy learned Mandinka.
Mandinka	215	Elicited from speaker	Ñiŋ́ kewó karánta báake.		ñiŋ́ kew-ó karán-ta báake	DEM man-DEF learn-PF.POS very	This man is a very learned person.
Mandinka	216	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye maakáŋo moyi.		kambaan-óo ye maakáŋ-o moyi	boy-DEF PF.POS noise-DEF hear	The boy heard a noise.
Mandinka	217	Elicited from speaker	Wo kúwo moyíta.		wo kúw-o moyí-ta	DEM matter-DEF hear-PF.POS	The people heard about that matter. / lit. This matter was heard.
Mandinka	218	Elicited from speaker	Musukéebaa búka moyiróo ke.		musu-kéebaa búka moyi-r-óo ke	woman-old HAB.NEG hear-ANTIP-DEF do	The old woman does not hear.
Mandinka	219	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musóo moyindi muŋ́ ne la?		kew-ó ye mus-óo moyi-ndi muŋ́ ne la	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF hear-CAUS what FOC OBL	What did the man promise the woman?
Mandinka	220	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musóo moyirindi muŋ́ ne la?		kew-ó ye mus-óo moyi-rindi muŋ́ ne la	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF hear-CAUS what FOC OBL	What did the man tell the woman?
Mandinka	221	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye subôo tábi.		mus-óo ye sub-ôo tábi	woman-DEF PF.POS meat-DEF cook	The woman cooked the meat.
Mandinka	222	Elicited from speaker	Subôo tábíta.		sub-ôo tábí-ta	meat-DEF cook-PF.POS	The meat was cooked.
Mandinka	223	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye tábíroo ke.		mus-óo ye tábí-r-oo ke	woman-DEF PF.POS cook-ANTIP-DEF do	The woman did the cooking.
Mandinka	224	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musôo tábíríndi subôo la.		kew-ó ye mus-ôo tábí-ríndi sub-ôo la	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF cook-CAUS meat-DEF OBL	The man made the woman cook the meat.
Mandinka	225	Elicited from speaker	Jíyo fájíta.		jíy-o fájí-ta	water-DEF boil-PF.POS	The water boiled.
Mandinka	226	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye jíyo fájíndi.		mus-óo ye jíy-o fájí-ndi	woman-DEF PF.POS water-DEF boil-CAUS	The woman boiled the water.
Mandinka	227	Elicited from speaker	Musôo fúntíta súwo kóno.		mus-ôo fúntí-ta súw-o kóno	woman-DEF go_out-PF.POS house-DEF in	The woman went out from the house.
Mandinka	228	Elicited from speaker	Károo fúntíta.		kár-oo fúntí-ta	moon-DEF go_out-PF.POS	The moon appeared.
Mandinka	229	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye murôo fúntíndi bootôo kóno.		kew-ó ye mur-ôo fúntí-ndi boot-ôo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS knife-DEF go_out-CAUS bag-DEF in	The man took the knife out of the bag.
Mandinka	230	Elicited from speaker	Kewó jaŋkáríta.		kew-ó jaŋkárí-ta	man-DEF be_ill-PF.POS	The man fell ill.
Mandinka	231	Elicited from speaker	Dómóríjáwoo yé kewó jankarindi.		dómórí-jáw-oo yé kew-ó jankari-ndi	food-bad-DEF PF.POS man-DEF be_ill-CAUS	The bad food made the man ill.
Mandinka	232	Elicited from speaker	Musóo kumbóota.		mus-óo kumbóo-ta	woman-DEF cry-PF.POS	The woman cried.
Mandinka	233	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ka a keemáa kumboo.		mus-óo ka a keemáa kumboo	woman-DEF HAB.POS 3SG husband.DEF cry	The woman laments the loss of her husband.
Mandinka	234	Elicited from speaker	Muŋ́ ne yé musóo kumbondi?		muŋ́ ne yé mus-óo kumbo-ndi	what FOC PF.POS woman-DEF cry-CAUS	What made the woman cry?
Mandinka	235	Elicited from speaker	Yíroo boyíta baŋkóo kaŋ.		zír-oo boyí-ta baŋk-óo kaŋ	tree-DEF fall-PF.POS ground-DEF on	The tree fell on the ground.
Mandinka	236	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye yíroo boyi.		kew-ó ye yír-oo boyi	man-DEF PF.POS tree-DEF fall	The man cut down the tree.
Mandinka	237	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye yíroo boyindi.		kew-ó ye yír-oo boyi-ndi	man-DEF PF.POS tree-DEF fall-CAUS	The man cut down the tree.
Mandinka	238	Elicited from speaker	Bándíyolu boyíta julóolu kaŋ.		bándíy-o-lu boyí-ta jul-óo-lu kaŋ	bandit-DEF-PL fall-PF.POS merchant-DEF-PL on	The bandits attacked (lit. fell on) the merchants.
Mandinka	239	Elicited from speaker	Bándíyolu yé julóolu boyiŋkaŋ.		bándíy-o-lu yé jul-óo-lu boyiŋ-kaŋ	bandit-DEF-PL PF.POS merchant-DEF-PL fall-on	The bandits attacked the merchants.
Mandinka	240	Elicited from speaker	Máŋkoo jolónta baŋkóo to.		máŋk-oo jolón-ta baŋk-óo to	mango-DEF fall-PF.POS ground-DEF LOC	The mango fell on the ground.
Mandinka	241	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye muróo joloŋ.		kew-ó ye mur-óo joloŋ	man-DEF PF.POS knife-DEF let_fall	The man let the knife fall.
Mandinka	242	Elicited from speaker	Sulóo ye í joloŋ yíroo sánto.		sul-óo ye í joloŋ yír-oo sánto	monkey-DEF PF.POS REFL let_fall tree-DEF on_top	The monkey let itself fall from the tree.
Mandinka	243	Elicited from speaker	Samâa búsáta baŋkóo kaŋ.		samâa búsá-ta baŋk-óo kaŋ	rain.DEF fall_violently-PF.POS ground-DEF on	The rain fell on the ground violently.
Mandinka	244	Elicited from speaker	Samáa ye baŋkôo búsa.		samáa ye baŋk-ôo búsa	rain.DEF PF.POS ground-DEF fall_violently_on	The rain fell on the ground violently.
Mandinka	245	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye laaráŋo dádaa.		kew-ó ye laaráŋ-o dádaa	man-DEF PF.POS bed-DEF make/repair	The man made a bed / repaired the bed.
Mandinka	246	Elicited from speaker	Laaráŋo dádáata.		laaráŋ-o dádáa-ta	bed-DEF make/repair-PF.POS	The bed was made / repaired.
Mandinka	247	Elicited from speaker	Batuutáa ye newó ke sánoo ti.		batuutáa ye new-ó ke sán-oo ti	magician.DEF PF.POS iron-DEF transform gold-DEF ESS	The magician made gold out of iron (lit. changed the iron into gold).
Mandinka	248	Elicited from speaker	Díndíŋo kéta kewó ti.		díndíŋ-o ké-ta kew-ó ti	child-DEF become-PF.POS man-DEF ESS	The child became a man.
Mandinka	249	Elicited from speaker	Báamaa yé a díŋo kéndi kewó ti.		báamaa yé a díŋ-o ké-ndi kew-ó ti	mother PF.POS 3SG son-DEF become-CAUS man-DEF ESS	The mother helped her son become a man.
Mandinka	250	Elicited from speaker	Newô kéta sánoo ti.		new-ô ké-ta sán-oo ti	iron-DEF become-PF.POS gold-DEF ESS	The iron changed into gold.
Mandinka	251	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo soto a karammôo búlu.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo soto a karammôo búlu	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF get/have 3SG teacher.DEF POSS	The boy got the book from his teacher.
Mandinka	252	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye kitáaboo soto.		kambaan-óo ye kitáab-oo soto	boy-DEF PF.POS book-DEF get/have	The boy got the book / has a book.
Mandinka	253	Elicited from speaker	Ñéwo sotóta le márséwo to bii.		ñéw-o sotó-ta le márséw-o to bii	fish-DEF be_available-PF.POS FOC market-DEF LOC today	There is fish available at the market today.
Mandinka	254	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ka dáañínoo sotondi dímbáayaa ye.		kew-ó ka dáañín-oo soto-ndi dímbáayaa ye	man-DEF HAB.POS food-DEF be_available-CAUS family BEN	The man provides the family with food. / lit. makes food available for the family.
Mandinka	255	Elicited from speaker	Musôo bálánta kewó ma dóntóroo la.		mus-ôo bálán-ta kew-ó ma dóntór-oo la	woman-DEF refuse-PF.POS man-DEF OBL loan-DEF OBL	The woman refused the man a loan.
Mandinka	256	Elicited from speaker	Muŋ́ ne yé musôo bálándi dóntóroo la?		muŋ́ ne yé mus-ôo bálá-ndi dóntór-oo la	what FOC PF.POS woman-DEF refuse-CAUS loan-DEF OBL	What made the woman refuse the loan?
Mandinka	257	Elicited from speaker	Kewô kúmáta.		kew-ô kúmá-ta	man-DEF speak-PF.POS	The man spoke.
Mandinka	258	Elicited from speaker	Kewô kúmáta musóo ye.		kew-ô kúmá-ta mus-óo ye	man-DEF speak-PF.POS woman-DEF BEN	The man talked to the woman.
Mandinka	259	Elicited from speaker	Tántáŋo kúmáta.		tántáŋ-o kúmá-ta	drum-DEF sound-PF.POS	The drum sounded.
Mandinka	260	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye tántáŋo kúmándi.		kambaan-óo ye tántáŋ-o kúmá-ndi	boy-DEF PF.POS drum-DEF sound-CAUS	The boy sounded the drum.
Mandinka	261	Elicited from speaker	Jíyo súmáyáata le.		jíy-o súmáyáa-ta le	water-DEF be_cold-PF.POS FOC	The water is cold.
Mandinka	262	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye têe súmáyándi janníŋ a bé a mińna.		kew-ó ye têe súmáyá-ndi janníŋ a bé a miń-na	man-DEF PF.POS tea.DEF be_cold-CAUS before 3SG LOC.COP 3SG drink-INF	The man let the tea get cold before drinking it.
Mandinka	263	Elicited from speaker	Loolóo ka ñílísa.		loolóo ka ñílísa	star.DEF HAB.POS twinkle	Stars twinkle.
Mandinka	264	Elicited from speaker	Ñiŋ báyoo díyáata musóo ye.		ñiŋ báy-oo díyáa-ta mus-óo ye	DEM cloth-DEF be_pleasant-PF.POS woman-DEF BEN	The woman likes this cloth.
Mandinka	265	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye wulôo báyi súwo kóno.		kew-ó ye wul-ôo báyi súw-o kóno	man-DEF PF.POS dog-DEF chase house-DEF in	The man chased the dog from the house.
Mandinka	266	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye mináŋo deema.		kew-ó ye mináŋ-o deema	man-DEF PF.POS deer-DEF hunt	The man hunted deer.
Mandinka	267	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ka deemóo ke.		kew-ó ka deem-óo ke	man-DEF HAB.POS hunting-DEF do	The man hunts (habitually).
Mandinka	268	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye súŋkútoo fútuu.		kew-ó ye súŋkút-oo fútuu	man-DEF PF.POS girl-DEF marry	The man married the girl.
Mandinka	269	Elicited from speaker	Súŋkútoo fútúuta kewó ye.		súŋkút-oo fútúu-ta kew-ó ye	girl-DEF marry-PF.POS man-DEF BEN	The girl married the man (lit. was married to the man).
Mandinka	270	Elicited from speaker	Kambaanóo ye batáayoo karaŋ.		kambaan-óo ye batáay-oo karaŋ	boy-DEF PF.POS letter-DEF read	The boy read the letter.
Mandinka	271	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanóo karandirindi batáayoo la.		kew-ó ye kambaan-óo karan-dirindi batáay-oo la	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF read-CAUS letter-DEF OBL	The man made the boy read the letter.
Mandinka	272	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanôo kúmándi.		kew-ó ye kambaan-ôo kúmándi	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF call	The man called the boy.
Mandinka	273	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye kambaanôo kúmándi moo hákílíntáŋo la.		kew-ó ye kambaan-ôo kúmándi moo hákílíntáŋ-o la	man-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF call person stupid-DEF OBL	The man called the boy a fool.
Mandinka	274	Elicited from speaker	Faá ye súŋkútoo nii kewó la.		faá ye súŋkút-oo nii kew-ó la	father.DEF PF.POS girl-DEF offer man-DEF BEN	The father married (lit. offered) the girl to the man.
Mandinka	275	Elicited from speaker	Mus-óo ye kew-ó ñiniŋkaa a kontóŋ-o la.		mus-óo ye kew-ó ñiniŋkaa a kontóŋ-o la	woman-DEF PF.POS man-DEF ask 3SG surname-DEF OBL	The woman asked the man his surname.
Mandinka	276	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye tiyôo sóoli bootôo kóno.		kew-ó ye tiy-ôo sóoli boot-ôo kóno	man-DEF PF.POS peanuts-DEF cram bag-DEF in	The man crammed the peanuts into the bag.
Mandinka	277	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye bootôo sóoli tiyôo la.		kew-ó ye boot-ôo sóoli tiy-óo la	man-DEF PF.POS bag-DEF stuff peanuts-DEF OBL	The man stuffed the bag with peanuts.
Mandinka	278	Elicited from speaker	Sáñjíyo kéta bii.		sáñjíy-o ké-ta bii	rain-DEF happen-PF.POS today	It rained today.
Mandinka	279	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye dookúwo ke.		kew-ó ye dookúw-o ke	man-DEF PF.POS work-DEF do	The man worked (lit. did work).
Mandinka	280	Elicited from speaker	Dookúwo kéta.		dookúw-o ké-ta	work-DEF do-PF.POS	The work was done.
Mandinka	281	Elicited from speaker	Musóolu teyíta báa la.		mus-óo-lu teyí-ta báa la	woman-DEF-PL cross-PF.POS river OBL	The women crossed the river.
Mandinka	282	Elicited from speaker	Musóolu ye báa teyi.		mus-óo-lu ye báa teyi	woman-DEF-PL PF.POS river cross	The women crossed the river.
Mandinka	283	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye musóolu teyindi báa la.		kew-ó ye mus-óo-lu teyi-ndi báa la	man-DEF PF.POS woman-DEF-PL cross-CAUS river OBL	The man conveyed the women across the river.
Mandinka	284	Elicited from speaker	Musôo wúlúuta kambaanóo la.		mus-ôo wúlúu-ta kambaan-óo la	woman-DEF give_birth-PF.POS boy-DEF OBL	The woman gave birth to a boy.
Mandinka	285	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kambaanôo wúluu.		mus-óo ye kambaan-ôo wúluu	woman-DEF PF.POS boy-DEF give_birth	The woman gave birth to a boy.
Mandinka	286	Elicited from speaker	Kewô wúlúuta Seejó le.		kew-ô wúlúu-ta Seejó le	man-DEF give_birth-PF.POS Sédhiou FOC	The man was born in Sédhiou.
Mandinka	287	Elicited from speaker	Wulóo duńta búŋo kóno.		wul-óo duń-ta búŋ-o kóno	dog-DEF enter-PF.POS house-DEF in	The dog came into the room.
Mandinka	288	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye batáayoo duŋ kíilaa búlu.		kew-ó ye batáay-oo duŋ kíilaa búlu	man-DEF PF.POS letter-DEF enter messenger POSS	The man handed the letter to the messenger.
Mandinka	289	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye wulóo dundi búŋo kóno.		kew-ó ye wul-óo du-ndi búŋ-o kóno	man-DEF PF.POS dog-DEF enter-CAUS house-DEF in	The man let the dog come into the room.
Mandinka	290	Elicited from speaker	Nénoo duńta.		nén-oo duń-ta	cold-DEF enter-PF.POS	It is cold (the weather got cold).
Mandinka	291	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye í fóño.		kew-ó ye í fóño	man-DEF PF.POS REFL rest	The man had a rest.
Mandinka	292	Elicited from speaker	Baramatóo te bálúula.		baramatóo te bálúu-la	wounded_person.DEF COP.NEG live-INF	The injured person will not survive.
Mandinka	293	Elicited from speaker	Moojámaa ka í báluu senóo le la jaŋ.		moo-jámaa ka í báluu sen-óo le la jaŋ	person-many HAB.POS REFL live farming-DEF FOC OBL here	Many people live on farming here.
Mandinka	294	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ka denaanôo bálúndi ninsinónoo la.		mus-óo ka denaan-ôo bálú-ndi ninsi-nón-oo la	woman-DEF HAB.POS baby-DEF live-CAUS cow-milk-DEF OBL	The woman feeds the baby on cow milk.
Mandinka	295	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye jíyo miŋ.		kew-ó ye jíy-o miŋ	man-DEF PF.POS water-DEF drink	The man drank water.
Mandinka	296	Elicited from speaker	Kewó ye í miŋ jíyo la.		kew-ó ye í miŋ jíy-o la	man-DEF PF.POS REFL drink water-DEF OBL	The man drank water.
Mandinka	297	Elicited from speaker	Musóo ye kewó mindi bóoroo la.		mus-óo ye kew-ó mi-ndi bóor-oo la	woman-DEF PF.POS man-DEF drink-CAUS medicine-DEF OBL	The woman made the man drink the medicine.
